=begin html
    <meta>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="sibyl.css" />
    </meta>
    <div id="title">
      The Sibyl
    </div>
    <div id="subtitle">
      Another layer of security for authentication
    </div>
    <p>
    <div id="menubar">
      <a href="index.html">Home</a> 
      <a href="download.html">Download</a>
      <a href="faq.html">FAQ</a>
      <a href="sibyl_step_by_step.html">Details</a>
      <a href="technical.html">Technical</a>
    </div>
    </p>

=end html

=head1 Download the source code

Caveat: notice that the code is still under development. We (the developers)
are using it for logging into different servers (linux and OS X Snow Leopard).
For detailed instructions on how to install both the server and the client
(PAM module), read the INSTALL.pod file in the doc directory.

 $ pod2txt INSTALL.pod

might help you.

=for html You can read it <a href="install.html">online</a> as well.

=begin html

The source code is available <a href="sibyl_src.tgz">here</a>

=end html

=begin text

You can find the source code at http://thesibyl.net/download.tgz

=end text

=begin man

You can find the source code at http://thesibyl.net/download.tgz

=end man

=head1 Licence

Copyright (c) 2010 Pedro Fortuny Ayuso & Rafael Casado Sánchez

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions
in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.  The name of
the authors (Pedro Fortuny Ayuso and Rafael Casado Sánchez)
cannot be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.



=begin html

      <div id="reminder">
      <p>
	This security project, the <strong>Sibyl</strong>,  has been
	invented and implemented by
	<a href="http://pfortuny.net">Pedro Fortuny</a> and <a href="http://rafacas.net">
	  Rafael Casado</a>. Keep updated.
      </p>
      <p>
         You can also see <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=24022019">Pedro</a>'s
         and <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=11581943">Rafa</a>'s LinkedIn
         profiles.
     </p>
      <p>
	All the documentation in this domain is published under a 
	<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/">Creative Commons-By 
	  Attribution
	  licence</a>. All
	the code is made public subject to
	the <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/BSD/"> BSD licence</a>.
      </p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      (c) 2010 Pedro Fortuny Ayuso and Rafael Casado S&aacute;nchez.
    </div>


=end html


=cut
