=begin html
    <meta>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="sibyl.css" />
    </meta>
    <div id="title">
      The Sibyl
    </div>
    <div id="subtitle">
      Another layer of security for authentication
    </div>
    <p>
    <div id="menubar">
      <a href="index.html">Home</a> 
      <a href="download.html">Download</a>
      <a href="faq.html">FAQ</a>
      <a href="sibyl_step_by_step.html">Details</a>
      <a href="technical.html">Technical</a>
    </div>
    </p>

=end html

=head1 FAQ

Nobody has asked us any questions yet. However we are eager to answer the
most obvious one.

=over

=item 1 Why?

Because dictionary attacks and rainbow tables cannot be just defeated
using complicated hash functions and salts: users always find the
weakest possible password for any scheme.

We are concerned about dictionary
attacks on the shadow file (or on any database containing hashed
authentication tokens). The advent of rainbow tables
and fast, cheap computing has weakened the ability of hashes to keep
"passwords" safe.

However, the security issue does B<not> lie on the hashing
functions, but on the fact that despite any security measures, end
users find always a way to use simple passwords (even more, each set
of password requirements admits several "simplest" examples, which
will be used frequently by different users and will be easily found
when using a "dictionary" or a rainbow table).

Our approach uses the random nature of OAEP, which essentially adds
more than 80 bits of randomness to the cyphertext, making both
dictionary and rainbow tables attacks infeasible (in order to obtain
the same cyphertext, the attacker needs to try the same password as
the user B<and> use the same random bits when encrypting).

=back



=begin html

      <div id="reminder">
      <p>
	This security project, the <strong>Sibyl</strong>,  has been
	invented and implemented by
	<a href="http://pfortuny.net">Pedro Fortuny</a> and <a href="http://rafacas.net">
	  Rafael Casado</a>. Keep updated.
      </p>
      <p>
         You can also see <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=24022019">Pedro</a>'s
         and <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=11581943">Rafa</a>'s LinkedIn
         profiles.
     </p>
      <p>
	All the documentation in this domain is published under a 
	<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/">Creative Commons-By 
	  Attribution
	  licence</a>. All
	the code is made public subject to
	the <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/BSD/"> BSD licence</a>.
      </p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      (c) 2010 Pedro Fortuny Ayuso and Rafael Casado S&aacute;nchez.
    </div>


=end html

=cut
