=head1 NAME

pam_sibyl - Use the Sibyl for authentication purposes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pam_sibyl.so> [ip=IP] [port=number] [root_ok=yes]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The pam_sibyl PAM module is used to take advantage of the sybil(X) for authentication purposes. By default, it uses a statically generated IP (usually 192.168.1.2) and a specific port (9999), but these are configurable.

=head1 FILES USED

The directory B</etc/sibyl> needs to exist and include the files

=over 

=item B<sign.pub>

the public key corresponding to the Sibyl's private signing key.

=item B<decrypt.pub>

the public key corresponding to the Sibyl's private decryption key.


=back 

=head1 OPTIONS

B<ip=IP> Set the Sibyl's IP to B<IP>. By default, this address is B<192.168.1.2>

B<port=number> use port B<number> to communicate with the Sibyl.

B<root_ok=yes> User B<root> can also authenticate using the Sibyl or
can modify his password. This is a security issue unless you are
absolutely certain that the Sibyl will be running any time the root
user wishes to log in. On the other hand, not setting this option
assumes that the root password is safe from dictionary attacks. There
is no B<root_ok=no> alternative: the default behaviour assumes B<root>
is B<not> linked to the Sibyl.

=head1 MODULE SERVICES PROVIDED

The B<auth> and B<passwd> services are provided.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

=over

=item PAM_AUTH_ERR

Authentication failure.

=item PAM_SYSTEM_ERR

System or communications error.

=item PAM_CONV_ERR

Conversation error during password retrieving dialogue.

=item PAM_SERVICE_ERR

Error while communicating with the Sibyl.

=item PAM_SUCCESS

Success.

=item PAM_USER_UNKNOWN

User not known (to the module).

=item PAM_IGNORE

Only returned when B<root> tries to log or change his password in and the
B<root_ok=yes> option is not set, which is the default behaviour.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

sibyl(n), sibyl_srv(n), sibyl_client(n)

=head1 AUTHORS

pam_sibyl was written by Pedro Fortuny <info@pfortuny.net> and Rafael Casado <rafacas@gmail.com>

