=begin html
    <meta>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="sibyl.css" />
    </meta>
    <div id="title">
      The Sibyl
    </div>
    <div id="subtitle">
      Another layer of security for authentication
    </div>
    <p>
    <div id="menubar">
      <a href="index.html">Home</a> 
      <a href="download.html">Download</a>
      <a href="faq.html">FAQ</a>
      <a href="sibyl_step_by_step.html">Details</a>
      <a href="technical.html">Technical</a>
    </div>
    </p>

=end html

=head1 The protocol of the Sibyl

The communication between the login server and the Sibyl must needs be as simple as
possible, as the latter is devised to perform essentially a single operation (checking
whether two authentication tokens match). Hence, there is a very limited set of commands
which it will respond to.

The Sibyl is designed to be as silent as possible and *will not report mistakes*: if any
command or communication attempt does not conform to the protocol described below, it
will close the connection silently.

The syntax of the commands understood by the sibyl is:

"[X];nonce;param1;param2@@"

where:

=over

=item [X] denotes either a literal '[]' or '[-]' or a digit (0 to 9) between square brackets.

Each of these commands means:

=over

=item '[]': Perform the standard operation (check two tokens for match).

=item '[-]': Send back the public decryption and signing keys.

This command needs no parameters (so it is just '[-];nonce;@@')

=item '[D]': (where D) is a digit. Translate the parameter (only one) from one encryption
key to the encryption key with digit D.

This is only needed when updating encryption keys on the Sibyl: whenever a new encryption
key is generated, it *must* have the same name as the original one (say 'decrypt') with a
trailing digit (f.e. 'decrypt7'). This command will ask the Sibyl to decrypt the first
parameter using the key 'decrypt' and reencrypt it using the (public) key 'decrypt7.pub'.

The Sibyl will (if the command runs successfully) perform the reencryption and send the
new encrypted key back to the server.

There is a sample script 'translate_client.pl' in the src/client directory which
automates this process for shadow-type files.

This is the *only* way to update the stored authentication tokens on the login server.

=item '[-]': Send the public keys

The Sibyl will send back the public keys as a text stream. The user will then
have to save their contents according to the configuration on the server.

There is a script 'get_keys.pl' in the src/client directory which sends this
command to the Sibyl.

=back

=item The 'nonce' parameter is:

For the standard operation (the '[]' case), a new nonce (sixteen hex digits).

For the '[-]' and '[D]' operations, the same nonce as the Sibyl sent back.


=item The parameters are:

param1: In the '[]' case (ordinary operation), the stored authentication token,
which *contains the SALT*. In the '[D]' case, the stored authentication token,
*without* the salt.

param2: Only used in the '[]' case, the authentication token as received by
the login server (and publicly encrypted+base 64 encoded), as explained in
the main documentation.

The trailing *two* 'at' signs '@@' are required always. They indicate the end
of the message.

=back

The commands understood by the Sibyl are:

=over

=item 



=back




=begin html

      <div id="reminder">
      <p>
	This security project, the <strong>Sibyl</strong>,  has been
	invented and implemented by
	<a href="http://pfortuny.net">Pedro Fortuny</a> and <a href="http://rafacas.net">
	  Rafael Casado</a>. Keep updated.
      </p>
      <p>
         You can also see <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=24022019">Pedro</a>'s
         and <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=11581943">Rafa</a>'s LinkedIn
         profiles.
     </p>
      <p>
	All the documentation in this domain is published under a 
	<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/">Creative Commons-By 
	  Attribution
	  licence</a>. All
	the code is made public subject to
	the <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/BSD/"> BSD licence</a>.
      </p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      (c) 2010 Pedro Fortuny Ayuso and Rafael Casado S&aacute;nchez.
    </div>


=end html


=cut
