=head1 NAME

shadow2sibyl - Transform the standard shadow file into an RSA encrypted shadow
file suitable for the Sibyl.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<< shadow2sibyl < input > output >>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<shadow2sibyl> transforms the input (whose format must conform to a password file's) 
system's shadow file into a file suitable for use
with the Sibyl. The latter must be kept in the directory F</etc/sibyl> and its
name must be also F<shadow>.

The entries in the Sibyl's shadow file are similar to those of an ordinary shadow
file except for the second argument. The Sibyl stores the passwords as the concatenation
of a 'salt' and the base64
encoding of the RSA encryption (with the Sibyl's public signing key, stored as
F</etc/sibyl/sign.pub>) of the output of the system's password hashing function.
This is, for Linux and most Unices, the I<crypt(3)> function. In Leopard, the SHA1 function with
salting is used.

=head1 FILES USED

The file F<sign.pub>, usually stored in F</etc/sibyl> is essential for the
correct functioning of the Sibyl. This file must be the RSA public key associated
with the Sibyl's private signing key. As such, it must be in sync with the Sibyl's
files.

=head1 USAGE

shadow2sibyl expects input from stdin and writes the output to stdout, so the normal
usage is as follows:

=over

shadow2sibyl < input > output

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

sibyl(n), sibyl_srv(n), sibyl_client(n), pam_sibyl(n), passwd(5).

=head1 AUTHORS

shadow2sibyl was written by Pedro Fortuny <info@pfortuny.net> and Rafael Casado <rafacas@gmail.com>

