=head1 NAME

sibyl_srv.pl - Sibyl's server layer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

I<sibyl_srv.pl> [-d decrypt key] [-s sign key] [-i IP] [-p port] [-D path]
I<sibyl_srv_ioselect.pl> [-d decrypt key] [-s sign key] [-i IP] [-p port] [-D path]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sibyl_srv.pl> (or its C<ioselect> equivalent) is the server side of
the Sibyl Authentication Module. This program runs on the Sibyl and
provides a zero-knowledge oracle for authentication purposes to a (or
several) authentication servers, which must be either running
I<sibyl_client.pl> or using the I<pam_sibyl.so> PAM module.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d> I<file>

use I<file> as the RSA private decryption key. The authentication server must
use, obviously, the corresponding public key. Default is I<decrypt>.

=item B<-s> I<file>

use I<file> as the RSA private signing key. The authentication server must
use, obviously, the corresponding public key. It is B<essential> that this
key be different from the decryption key. Otherwise the protocol would be
utterly unsafe. Default is I<sign>.

=item B<-i> I<IP>

use I<IP> (in A.B.C.C notation) to listen on. By default, the Sibyl listens
on all the available network addresses.

=item B<-p> I<port>

Listen on port number I<port>. Default is 9999.

=item B<-D> I<path>

Use I<path> for the configuration directory, where the signing and decryption
keys are stored. Default is I<.>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Run the server in the background and with SIGHUP ignored, listening on IP 192.168.1.3
and on port 3412:

=over

nohup perl sibyl_srv.pl -i 192.168.1.3 -p 3412 &

=back


=head1 EXIT STATUS

The server does not exit unless invoked with wrong parameters, in which case the
error code es 1.

=head1 SEE ALSO

sibyl(n), sibyl_client(n), pam_sibyl(n)

=head1 AUTHORS

Pedro Fortuny Ayuso <pfortuny@gmail.com> and Rafael Casado Sanchez <rafacas@gmail.com>.

